Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain an adventure,
drama, sci-fi film called “Chronicle.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
Andrew is a high schooler living in Seattle
with his sick mother and abusive father.
Andrew is an outcast, having little to no
friends and being relatively unknown at his
school.
Tired of his father’s abuse, Andrew decides
to buy a camera as a sort of deterrent for
his father.
Andrew tells his father that he’ll be recording
everything from this point on.
Andrew visits his bedridden mother, Karen,
and she wishes him a good day at school.
Andrew’s cousin and closest friend, Matt,
picks up Andrew, and they both head to school.
Matt gives Andrew nuggets of wisdom from philosophers
he’s been reading on, and Andrew teases
him.
Andrew spends some time recording his school,
showing the camera where he eats and hangs
out.
Some teenagers bully Andrew and take his camera
away, teasing him.
They eventually give it back after ridiculing
him.
On their way home, Matt invites Andrew to
a party, but Andrew declines.
Matt is adamant about making Andrew come,
thinking that some time outside can be good
for him.
Andrew reluctantly agrees.
At home, Andrew looks through his recording
when his father, Richard, barges in.
Richard smacks Andrew across the face, pushing
him to the floor.
Richard angrily tells Andrew that he’s to
do what he’s told.
Matt and Andrew later arrive at the party
and split up.
Andrew records the party, seeing people having
fun and dancing.
He then spots Casey, a girl who also records
her day for her vlog.
Matt steps in and awkwardly tries to impress
Casey, again dropping philosophical jargon.
Andrew gets into some trouble when a guy accuses
Andrew of filming his girlfriend.
Andrew steps out of the party and heads to
the parking lot.
He cries as he cleans the dirt off of his
camera.
Andrew is frustrated, feeling like he doesn’t
belong in the crowd.
Steve, the popular kid, running for class
president, calls out to Andrew and invites
him to join him and his friends.
Steve says he and Matt had found something
in the woods and asks Andrew to film what
they’ve discovered.
Andrew joins Steve, and they arrive at a hole
in the middle of a clearing.
They hear strange sounds coming from the pit,
and Steve dives in to explore.
They explore deeper into the hole and find
a cavern containing a massive glowing crystal.
It starts humming, and everything begins shaking
before turning black.
Several weeks later, Matt, Steve, and Andrew
are in a backyard where they throw a baseball
at each other.
When Matt throws the ball at Steve, the ball
swerves right and hits Steve sideways.
Matt then throws the ball at Andrew, and Andrew
stops the ball mid-air with his mind.
Andrew’s nose starts bleeding, and he drops
it.
The three then play with Lego pieces inside
and levitate the pieces without touching them.
It appears that the mysterious crystal has
given them the power of telekinesis.
Later, they decide to return to the hole but
see dirt has wholly filled it in.
Authorities also arrive and tell the boys
to keep away from the spot.
On their ride home, Steve and Andrew talk
about their families.
Andrew tells Steve about his mom, and his
father who used to be a fireman.
An accident had injured Richard, and he now
stays at home and collects insurance checks
from the government.
Steve also shares some problems at home with
his parents.
At home, Andrew practices levitating his camera.
He hears his father on the phone, begging
someone for more medical aid for Karen.
Richard says he can no longer afford Karen’s
medication, but her situation is getting worse.
The next day, Andrew takes Karen out for a
stroll in the marina, and the pair enjoy a
lovely time out.
Later, the boys are again outside, practicing
their powers, throwing stones at a lake.
Andrew asks Matt if he likes him, and Matt
says he does, but he used to find Andrew hard
to communicate with.
Andrew then asks him if he thinks they can
do more with their powers.
At school, Matt theorizes that their power
is equitable to a muscle that they have to
improve for it to get stronger.
The night before, he says he could lift up
his bed off the ground without getting a nosebleed.
If they lift something up too heavy or try
to do something too complicated, it would
strain their power, and their nose would start
to bleed.
He suggests a slow progression to improve
their strength.
Andrew then suggests heading somewhere public
to practice their abilities, and they decide
to do it at a supermarket.
They each begin messing with people, doing
harmless pranks.
Andrew makes a grocery cart roll away, Steve
scares a child by levitating a stuffed animal,
and Matt tries to get a piece of gum out of
a person’s mouth but ends up whacking them
instead.
At a diner, Andrew tries stabbing Matt with
a fork to show how their powers can even protect
them from sharp objects and projectiles.
Andrew then manifests an image of the Virgin
Mary on his pancake pate, scaring one of the
waitresses.
The boys are having a fun time, using their
powers foolishly.
At the parking lot, Steve tries pranking a
woman.
He successfully moves her car to a different
parking spot.
Matt and Andrew are impressed, noting that
this is probably the heaviest any of them
have ever lifted.
Steve’s nose starts bleeding profusely,
but he maintains he feels fine.
The woman returns, and they all laugh at her
confusion.
Later, they’re on a drive home when a truck
behind them starts honking.
Andrew steps in, aiming to make the pick-up
truck swerve a little, but ends up putting
too much force.
The truck veers off the road into a ravine
and falling into a river.
The boys rush out to help, and Steven dives
into the water to retrieve the driver.
They then call the police.
Steve is visibly shaken by what happened,
and Matt confronts Andrew.
Andrew seems aloof and distant as Matt talks
down to him, saying he’s put someone in
grave danger.
Matt says their powers are getting stronger
and harder to control and proposes implementing
rules.
The following day, they meet up with Steve
at a landfill and see that he’s levitating
above them.
He encourages them to try it out.
Matt goes first but has trouble getting himself
off the ground, faceplanting several times.
Andrew tries next and gets himself up, ecstatic
that he can float.
He joins Steven, and they both cheer.
Later, the boys are soaring through the clouds.
They all speed through the sky, flying past
one another at neck-breaking speeds.
They even start throwing a football, catching
it midair.
They slow down, floating above when a plane
suddenly flies past them.
Steve gets knocked out, and Andrew flies in
to save him.
He grabs Steve, but they keep falling.
Andrew slows them both down seconds before
hitting the ground, and they both end up unscathed.
Matt joins them, and they all start laughing
and cheering among themselves, elated knowing
they’re the first humans to fly.
They then gather for a sleepover at Steve’s
house, and Andrew tells them that the day
has been the best day of his entire life.
The next day at school, they plan to go on
a trip around the world, flying to their dream
destinations.
Steve says he’s planning a weekend trip
to Hawaii, and Andrew says he wants to go
to Tibet, thinking how beautiful and tranquil
it is, saying that the monks there have achieved
a high level of enlightenment.
Matt later meets with Casey, handing her a
donation.
He says it’s for the drought she mentioned
in one of her vlogs.
Casey then tells Matt he can just mail it
in himself.
Casey asks Matt the reason for his sudden
change, saying how he used to be too smart
to hang out with, and now he seems to care
much for world issues and starts hanging out
with people.
Matt says that he’s changed now, and he
has a better understanding of people.
He tells Casey he wants to hang out with her
too, but Casey closes the door on him.
Andrew and Steve hang out on top of a building,
and Steve is amazed at Andrew’s utilization
of his power, seeing that he can levitate
his camera with finesse.
Andrew then says that he’s been lonely for
a long time before they got powers.
He’s didn’t even hang out with Matt that
much, even though they’re cousins.
Steve then proposes they enter the school
talent show, telling Andrew he’ll help him
with the performance.
Andrew then prepares for the talent show,
showing off his attire to Karen.
As he heads out, Richard calls him and tells
Andrew he’s suspicious of him.
Richard says he knows Andrew is up to something.
At the talent show, Matt is operating the
camera, and he runs into Casey, who’s also
recording the event.
Steve and Andrew appear onstage and begin
their magic show.
The illusions and tricks are pretty much child’s
play for Andrew, using his telekinetic abilities.
The two put on a great show, their classmates
and schoolmates cheering all throughout the
performance.
Matt and Andrew then head to a house party
where people all greet him.
At last, Andrew experiences how it’s like
to be noticed and appreciated.
The whole ordeal is very validating for him.
Andrew meets a pink-haired girl at the party,
and they start talking and hit it off immediately.
Andrew has fun at the party, and Matt is left
with the camera.
He leaves a sweet message for Andrew, but
Casey spots him and invites him to leave the
party.
Steve is then the new cameraman, and he looks
for Andrew.
He goes upstairs to discover that Andrew had
thrown up all over the girl he was with.
Matt comes in laughing, but Andrew doesn’t
take the situation lightly.
He shouts at Andrew, telling him to leave.
The following day, Andrew plays with a spider
before making it levitate and splitting it
into pieces.
Richard is then seen looking through Andrew’s
room, and he sees the camera.
Richard then confronts Andrew about spending
too much money on a camera while having barely
any money for his mother’s medication.
Richard continues shouting at him, and Andrew
answers back, angering Richard.
Richard then attacks Andrew, pinning him down,
but Andrew fights back, using his powers to
overpower Richard.
Andrew tells him he can crush him if he wanted
to, then throws him to the floor.
Richard is left moaning and groaning.
Meanwhile, Matt is with Casey when his nose
starts bleeding even though he hasn’t used
his powers.
Andrew is in the middle of a thunderstorm,
crying.
Steve arrives, saying his nose started bleeding,
and he heard Andrew’s voice calling to him.
Andrew asks Steve to leave him alone, but
Steve tells Andrew to calm down and return
to the ground.
Andrew gets angrier, and lightning suddenly
strikes.
Time passes, and Andrew records a funeral.
He sees Casey and Matt attending, as well
as their other classmates.
Steve had been struck by lightning and died.
Andrew then spots Matt glaring at him.
After the service, Matt confronts Andrew about
what happened to Steve, questioning how he
got struck by lightning when there were no
recorded lightning strikes.
Matt orders Andrew to tell the truth, but
Andrew remains quiet.
He avoids the confrontation and flies away.
The next day, Andrew is back at Steve’s
grave, apologizing.
He says he didn’t know what happened, and
he must’ve lost control.
He goes back to the pit where they got their
powers and sees it’s now overgrown with
grass, and a pattern has started forming around
it.
Andrew then heads to school and sees people
ridiculing him for vomiting at the party.
He sees the pink-haired girl with her friends,
and her friends make fun of him too.
The bully also teases him, mimicking him vomiting.
Andrew is overcome by anger.
He approaches the bully and pulls several
of his teeth out.
At a bathroom stall, he shows the camera the
pieces of teeth and describes how he took
them.
At a junkyard, Andrew talks to his camera
and speaks about evolution and the concept
of an apex predator.
He talks about how predators don’t feel
guilt when killing their prey and how humans
don’t feel guilt when stepping on ants or
squishing flies and mosquitoes.
He equates himself as being a human apex predator.
His abilities may bring harm to people, but
for him, that’s just how things are.
He then crushes a car behind him with ease.
Matt barges into Andrew’s room, finding
out about what happened at school with the
bully.
He stresses how important it is for them to
follow their rules as they’re getting too
powerful for their own good.
Matt then warns Andrew that he’d have to
step in if Andrew doesn’t stop harming people.
They get into an argument, and Matt throws
a punch, but Andrew catches his fist.
Matt then leaves immediately.
Andrew heads to the pharmacy to get more medication
for his mother, but the pharmacist tells him
he doesn’t have enough money.
Left with no other choice, Andrew decides
to take more drastic action for his mother.
He takes his father’s old firefighter suit
and goes out to forcefully take money from
people.
He first targets the men on his street who
always make fun of him.
He blasts all of them away, smashing them
into cars and onto the asphalt.
In seconds, he renders all of them unconscious
and takes all their money.
He then goes to a gasoline station, disabling
the cashier and taking all the money in the
cash register.
As he makes his way out, the cashier chases
after him with a shotgun.
Andrew swipes the shotgun away, and it ends
up firing at a gasoline tank.
The tank explodes, and the cashier and Andrew
are thrown back.
Andrew catches fire and loses consciousness.
Andrew gets admitted to a hospital, and Richard
is called in.
Richard enters Andrew’s room and starts
crying.
He tells an unconscious Andrew that Karen
had died.
He then blames Andrew for her death as he
thinks she wouldn’t have died if he hadn’t
been looking for Andrew.
He starts shouting at Andrew, ordering him
to apologize for Karen’s death.
His shouting gets louder, and Andrew finally
wakes up, blasting a hole through the hospital
wall.
Matt is at a birthday party when his nose
starts bleeding.
He immediately knows something is wrong with
Andrew and sees a news report about an explosion
at the hospital.
He immediately leaves with Casey driving to
the hospital.
They reach the hospital and see Andrew picking
up Richard and dropping him.
Matt swoops in and catches Richard, everyone
seeing him flying.
They get into the car again, but Andrew finds
them and lifts them to the Space Needle before
dropping them.
Matt gets Casey and flies her down to safety.
People are recording everything on their cellphones,
and police and medical personnel scramble
to handle the situation.
Matt flies up to Andrew, trying to calm him
down and convince him to stop.
Andrew says he has always been treated terribly,
and this is his chance to take revenge on
everything that has happened to him.
Matt promises that he’ll help change his
life and tells him they could run away and
start a new life.
Matt continues speaking, but Andrew throws
a bus at him.
Andrew then lands at a building, and Matt
gets up to fight back.
Andrew and Matt fight, getting thrown all
over the city.
They smash through roads, cars, buildings,
apartments, and houses, not showing any signs
of slowing down.
They throw vehicles at each other, Andrew
having no regard for human life.
Matt still tries to convince Andrew to stop,
but the police surround them.
Matt gets shot, and Andrew blasts the police
back before flying away.
They both land at a plaza in front of a building,
where the police surround them again.
Matt begs Andrew to stop, but he doesn’t
listen.
The police open fire, but Andrew stops all
the bullets.
Andrew then starts shouting, and the buildings
behind them shake violently.
Glass and concrete crack, and debris rains
on them.
Matt pleads with Andrew not to hurt the cops,
but Andrew is too far gone.
He realizes there’s no other way but to
kill Andrew.
Matt takes the statue behind Andrew and aims
a steel spear at him before impaling him through
the chest.
Everything falls quiet, and Andrew hangs lifeless
in the middle of the plaza.
The police approach, but Andrew flies up and
escapes.
Time passes, and Matt is seen flying above
snowy mountaintops.
He talks to a camera as if it were Andrew,
and he points it at several Tibetan monk temples.
He leaves, saying farewell to Andrew.